Add docs on well-known event providers (#22112)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/well-known-event-providers.md

---
title: Well-known event providers in .NET
description: Review the providers and events published by the .NET runtime and libraries.
ms.topic: reference
ms.date: 12/21/2020
---

# Well-known event providers in .NET

> The .NET runtime and libraries write diagnostic events through a number of different event providers. Depending on your diagnostic needs, you can choose the appropriate providers to enable. This document describes some of the most commonly used event providers in the .NET runtime and libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .NET runtime and libraries write diagnostic events through a number of different event providers. Depending on your diagnostic needs, you can choose the appropriate providers to enable. This article describes some of the most commonly used event providers in the .NET runtime and libraries.
```

## CoreCLR

### "Microsoft-Windows-DotNETRuntime" provider

> This provider emits various events from the .NET runtime, including the GC, Loader, JIT, Exception and other events from the runtime. Read more about each event from this provider in [Runtime Provider Events List](../../fundamentals/diagnostics/runtime-events.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provider emits various events from the .NET runtime, including GC, loader, JIT, exception, and other events. Read more about each event from this provider in [Runtime Provider Events List](../../fundamentals/diagnostics/runtime-events.md).
```

### "Microsoft-DotNETCore-SampleProfiler" provider

> This provider is a .NET runtime event provider that is used for CPU sampling for managed callstacks. When enabled, it captures a snapshot of all threads' managed callstacks every 10 ms. To enable this, you need to specify an <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventLevel> of `Informational` or higher.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provider is a .NET runtime event provider that is used for CPU sampling for managed callstacks. When enabled, it captures a snapshot of each thread's managed callstack every 10 milliseconds. To enable this capture, you must specify an <xref:System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventLevel> of `Informational` or higher.
```

> ## Framework Libaries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Framework libraries
```

### "Microsoft-Extensions-DependencyInjection" provider

> This provider logs information from DependencyInjection. The table below shows events logged by `Microsoft-Extensions-DependencyInjection` provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This provider logs information from DependencyInjection. The following table shows events logged by the `Microsoft-Extensions-DependencyInjection` provider:
```

|Event name|Level|Description|
|----------|-----|-----------|
|`CallSiteBuilt`|Verbose (5)|A call site has been built.|
|`ServiceResolved`|Verbose (5)|A service has been resolved.|
|`ExpressionTreeGenerated`|Verbose (5)|An expression tree has been generated.|
|`DynamicMethodBuilt`|Verbose (5)|A <xref:System.Reflection.Emit.DynamicMethod> has been built.|

### "System.Buffers.ArrayPoolEventSource" provider

> This provider logs information from the ArrayPool. The table below shows the events logged by `ArrayPoolEventSource`:

Reviewer: Please change throughout. We're not supposed to use "above" and "below" because the layout can differ.

```suggestion
This provider logs information from the ArrayPool. The following table shows the events logged by `ArrayPoolEventSource`:
```

|Event name|Level|Description|
|----------|-----|-----------|
|`BufferRented`|Verbose (5)|A buffer is successfully rented.|
|`BufferAllocated`|Informational (4)|A buffer is allocated by the pool.|
|`BufferReturned`|Verbose (5)|A buffer is returned to the pool.|
|`BufferTrimmed`|Informational (4)|A buffer is attempted to be freed due to memory pressure or inactivity.|
|`BufferTrimPoll`|Informational (4)|A check is being made to trim buffers.|

### "System.Net.Http" provider

This provider logs information from the HTTP stack. The table below shows the events logged by `System.Net.Http` provider:

|Event name|Level|Description|
|----------|-----|-----------|
|RequestStart|Informational (4)|An HTTP request has started.|
|RequestStop|Informational (4)|An HTTP request has finished.|
|RequestFailed|Error (2)|An HTTP request has failed.|
|ConnectionEstablished|Informational (4)|An HTTP connection has been established.|
|ConnectionClosed|Informational (4)|An HTTP connection has been closed.|
|RequestLeftQueue|Informational (4)|An HTTP request has left the request queue.|
|RequestHeadersStart|Informational (4)|An HTTP request for header has started.|

> |RequestHeaderStop|Informational (4)|An HTTP requset for header has finished.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|RequestHeaderStop|Informational (4)|An HTTP request for header has finished.|
```

|RequestContentStart|Informational (4)|An HTTP request for content has started.|
|RequestContentStop|Informational (4)|An HTTP request for content has finished.|
|ResponseHeadersStart|Informational (4)|An HTTP response for header has started.|
|ResponseHeaderStop|Informational (4)|An HTTP response for header has finished.|
|ResponseContentStart|Informational (4)|An HTTP response for content has started.|
|ResponseContentStop|Informational (4)|An HTTP response for content has finished.|

### "System.Net.NameResolution" provider

> This provider logs information related to domain name resolution (DNS). The table below shows the events logged by `System.Net.NameResolution`:

Reviewer: DNS isn't really the abbreviation for domain name resolution. Maybe leave it out or do this?

```suggestion
This provider logs information related to DNS domain-name resolution. The table below shows the events logged by `System.Net.NameResolution`:
```

Author: Since DNS stands for domain name resolution, wouldn't it sound a little weird to say DNS domain-name resolution?

|`AcceptFailed`|Informational (4)|An attempt to accept a socket connection has failed.|

### "System.Threading.Tasks.TplEventSource" provider

This provider logs information on the [Task Parallel Library](../../standard/parallel-programming/task-parallel-library-tpl.md), such as Task scheduler events. The table below shows the events logged by `TplEventSource`:

|Event name|Keyword|Level|Description|
|----------|-------|-----|-----------|
|`TaskScheduled`|`TaskTransfer`(`0x1`)<br /><br />`Tasks`(`0x2`)|Informational (4)|A <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> is queued to the Task scheduler.|
|`TaskStarted`|`Tasks`(`0x2`)|Informational (4)|A <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> has started executing.|
|`TaskCompleted`|`TaskStops`(`0x40`)|Informational (4)|A <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> has finished executing.|
|`TaskWaitBegin`|`TaskTransfer`(`0x1`)<br /><br />`TaskWait`(`0x2`)|Informational (4)|Fired when an implicit or an explicit wait on a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> completion has started.|
|`TaskWaitEnd`|`Tasks`(`0x2`)|Verbose (5)|Fired when the wait for a <xref:System.Threading.Tasks.Task> completion returns.|

> |`TaskWaitContinuationStarted`|`Tasks`(`0x2`)|Verbose (5)|Fired when the work (method) associated with a TaskWaitEnd is started.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TaskWaitContinuationStarted`|`Tasks`(`0x2`)|Verbose (5)|Fired when the work (method) associated with a `TaskWaitEnd` is started.|
```

> |`TaskWaitContinuationCompleted`|`TaskStops`(`0x40`)|Verbose (5)|Fired when the work (method) associated with a TaskWaitEnd is completed.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`TaskWaitContinuationCompleted`|`TaskStops`(`0x40`)|Verbose (5)|Fired when the work (method) associated with a `TaskWaitEnd` is completed.|
```
